# Chronos
Exploring potential multivariate solutions for Transformer based time series models.

Initially exploring base capacity of Amazon's Chronos time series LLM model, with an eye toward potential ways to extend it with multivariate forecasting.  More likely, an alternative T5 based model, trained on similar data at higher dimensionality will be necessary for robust projection, but it will be interesting to see what the attention heads will pick up from interlaced parallel streams.

Experiments thus far:
1. Interlace: Built synthetic dataset with two related features as a model for related variables such as asset classes or biological stream feeds; process through Chronos to identify underlying relationships and project both streams into the future.  Streams were interlaced using virtual time interval offsets and a zero-based rest interval between each literal time increment.  Results are promising, as the established base trend projects well, as does the dependent / independent variable relationship.  Scaleability to higher order streams and more complex relationships is of concern, but the initial response indicates that the model may be robust to interlaced analysis.
2. Convolutional Compression: Leveraging real world asset values for gold, bitcoin, and ethereum, train a convolutional model to extract a linear feature set which can feed into Chronos; presented the data to Chronos, with a prediction horizon, then train an inverse decomposition model to extract the independent components from the Chronos prediction.  Results are mixed, as the convolutional model and Chronos projection captured effectively captured and predicted the collective themes, the decomposition process by trained component weights failed to effectively capture the inter-variable complexity; as expected, the decomposition was flat and functionally did little more than re-scale the consolidated trend by asset class.  Further investigation on this front would involve capturing the initial convolutional model weights and directly using their inverse for decomposition; this will likely provide a much more nuanced decomposition map than the initial static weight training process.
3. Signal Convolution: Leverage real world asset values for gold, bitcoin, and ethereum with signal processing layer to combine the streams into a single feature set for Chronos examination.
